>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
JUDY WOODRUFF IS ON ASSIGNMENT.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT:
>> THE CHOICE WE FACE IS
ULTIMATELY BETWEEN DIPLOMACY AND
SOME FORM OF WAR.
>> Ifill: TAKING ON CRITICS--
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PUSHES EVEN
MORE AGGRESSIVELY FOR CONGRESS
TO APPROVE A NUCLEAR DEAL WITH
IRAN.
THEN, TEN PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATES MAKE THE CUT AND
TOMORROW THEY APPEAR FOR THE
FIRST TIME WITH THE REAL
ELEPHANT IN THE ROOM-- DONALD
TRUMP.
NETFLIX OFFERS UNLIMITED LEAVE
FOR NEW PARENTS.
AND, THE MAKING OF A NEW OPERA.
LOVE, LOSS AND SURVIVAL AMID
CIVIL WAR DEPRIVATION-- THE BEST
SELLING NOVEL "COLD MOUNTAIN"
TRANSLATED INTO SONG.
ALL THAT AND MORE ON TONIGHT'S
PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: INTERNATIONAL EXPERTS
CONFIRMED TODAY THAT PLANE
DEBRIS FOUND IN THE INDIAN OCEAN
IS INDEED FROM MALAYSIAN
AIRLINES FLIGHT 370.
THE JETLINER DISAPPEARED IN
MARCH, 2014.
PART OF ONE WING WAS DISCOVERED
LAST WEEK ON REUNION ISLAND--
THOUSANDS OF MILES WEST OF WHERE
THE PLANE DISAPPEARED.
MALAYSIA'S PRIME MINISTER
ANNOUNCED THE FINDINGS TODAY, AT
A PRESS CONFERENCE IN KUALA
LUMPUR.
>> THE BURDEN OF UNCERTAINTY
FACED BY THE FAMILIES DURING
THIS TIME HAS BEEN UNSPEAKABLE.
IT IS MY GOAL THAT THIS
CONFIRMATION, HOWEVER TRAGIC AND
PAINFUL, WILL AT LEAST BRING
CERTAINTY TO THE FAMILIES AND
LOVED ONES OF THE 239 PEOPLE ON
BOARD.
MH370.
>> Ifill: INVESTIGATORS WILL
CONTINUE EXAMINING THE WING
FLAP, HOPING IT CAN SHED LIGHT
ON EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED TO THE
AIRLINER.
FIRE CREWS IN CALIFORNIA
CONTINUED THEIR BATTLE TODAY
AGAINST A SPRAWLING BLAZE NORTH
OF SAN FRANCISCO.
THEY'VE BEEN HELPED BY COOLER
TEMPERATURES AND HIGHER HUMIDITY
SINCE THE FIRE EXPLODED OUT OF
CONTROL OVER THE WEEKEND.
IT HAS BURNED 106 SQUARE MILES
SO FAR.
THE CAUSE OF THE FIRE REMAINS
UNKNOWN.
THERE'S BEEN ANOTHER ATTACK ON A
MOVIE THEATER.
A MAN WITH A HATCHET AND GUN
GASSED A THEATER NEAR NASHVILLE,
TENNESSEE TODAY WITH PEPPER
SPRAY.
HE WAS SHOT AND KILLED WHEN HE
TRADED SHOTS WITH POLICE.
THE SCENE UNFOLDED IN THE
HICKORY HOLLOW CINEMA IN
ANTIOCH.
POLICE SAID THE SUSPECT WAS A
51-YEAR OLD LOCAL WHITE MAN.
THREE PEOPLE WERE TREATED FOR
MINOR INJURIES.
THE UNITED NATIONS WARNED TODAY
THAT FIGHTING IN AFGHANISTAN IS
TAKING A GROWING TOLL AMONG
WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
JUST THIS YEAR, CIVILIAN
CASUALTIES AMONG WOMEN HAVE
JUMPED 23%.
FOR CHILDREN, THE INCREASE IS
13%.
THE U.N.'S SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE FOR AFGHANISTAN
RELEASED THE REPORT TODAY AT A
BRIEFING IN KABUL.
>> WE MUST NOW CALL ON THOSE
PARTIES ENGAGED IN THE CONFLICT
WHO HAVE IT WITHIN THEIR POWER
TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF CIVILIAN
CASUALTIES TO AFFECT CHANGES, TO
TRY TO COMMIT TO TAKING EVERY
STEP THAT WILL AVOID CIVILIAN
CASUALTIES.
>> Ifill: OVERALL, CASUALTIES
ROSE BY 1% IN THE FIRST HALF OF
THE YEAR.
U.N. OFFICIALS BLAME INCREASED
GROUND FIGHTING SINCE U.S. AND
NATO FORCES ENDED THEIR COMBAT
ROLE LAST YEAR.
AT LEAST 400 MIGRANTS WERE SAVED
FROM THE MEDITERRANEAN SEA
TODAY, AFTER THEIR BOAT CAPSIZED
OFF LIBYA.
ITALIAN, IRISH AND OTHER VESSELS
RACED TO THE SCENE TO HELP
RESCUE THE BOAT'S PASSENGERS.
THEY ALSO RECOVERED AT LEAST 25
BODIES, AND WARNED THERE MAY BE
MANY MORE.
UP TO 700 PEOPLE MAY HAVE BEEN
CRAMMED ONTO THE BOAT.
BRITAIN'S BEST-KNOWN RADICAL
MUSLIM CLERIC HAS BEEN ARRESTED
ON TERROR CHARGES.
AUTHORITIES TODAY CITED LECTURES
HE POSTED ONLINE LAST YEAR,
PRAISING THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP.
ANJEM CHOUDARY AND AN ASSOCIATE
WERE BROUGHT TO COURT THIS
AFTERNOON IN LONDON, ACCUSED OF
INCITING SUPPORT FOR ISIS.
HUNDREDS OF BRITISH MUSLIMS HAVE
LEFT FOR SYRIA AND IRAQ TO FIGHT
FOR THE MILITANT GROUP.
CHOUDARY, A 48-YEAR-OLD BRITISH-
BORN CLERIC, HAS BEEN PERHAPS
THE GROUP'S MOST VOCAL DEFENDER
IN THE INTERNATIONAL MEDIA.
>> PEOPLE DON'T COME TO ME TO
ASK ME WHETHER THEY SHOULD GO TO
THE ISLAMIC STATE.
I THINK THAT EVERY MUSLIM SHOULD
DO HIS RESPONSIBILITY.
>> Ifill: CHOUDARY HAD ALREADY
BEEN ARRESTED LAST FALL ON
SUSPICION OF MEMBERSHIP IN ISIS.
HE WAS LATER RELEASED, BUT HIS
PASSPORT WAS SEIZED.
IN A JANUARY INTERVIEW WITH THE
NEWSHOUR'S MARGARET WARNER, HE
WAS STEADFAST, BUT CAREFUL, IN
HIS DEFENSE OF THE ISLAMIC
STATE.
>> I'M ON RECORD ON SAYING THAT
I WOULD LOVE TO GO TO THE
ISLAMIC STATE MYSELF.
MY PASSPORT WAS TAKEN AWAY, BUT
I WOULD LOVE TO TAKE MY WIFE AND
CHILDREN AS WELL TO BRING THEM
UP ACCORDING TO THE SHARIA.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN I'M GOING
TO ENGAGE IN TERRORISTS
ACTIVITIES.
>> HE IS A TRAINED LAWYER.
HE IS VERY CAREFUL IN HIS
STATEMENTS AND HE KNEW EXACTLY
WHERE THAT LINE WAS THAT HE
WASN'T ALLOWED TO CROSS.
>> Ifill: PROFESSOR PETER
NEUMANN OF KING'S COLLEGE LONDON
RUNS THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER
FOR THE STUDY OF RADICALIZATION.
HE SPOKE WITH THE NEWSHOUR TODAY
IN WASHINGTON.
>> HE'S ALWAYS BEEN VERY CAREFUL
TO SAY THAT HE WAS NOT THE ONE
ACTUALLY ENCOURAGING THEM OR
DIRECTLY BRINGING THEM INTO
THESE PLOTS, BUT IT IS WIDELY
FELT THAT HE PLAYED AN IMPORTANT
ROLE IN RADICALIZING THEM.
>> Ifill: ANJEM CHOUDARY HAS FOR
15 YEARS NOW BEEN RUNNING A
GROUP THAT HAD DIFFERENT NAMES
THAT WAS VERY VOCAL AND VERY
AGGRESSIVE IN SUPPORT FOR
JIHADIST GROUPS AROUND THE
WORLD.
AL QAEDA, AND MORE RECENTLY THE
ISLAMIC STATE.
>> Ifill: LAST MONTH PRIME
MINISTER DAVID CAMERON OUTLINED-
- TO MIXED REVIEWS-- THE BRITISH
GOVERNMENT'S APPROACH TO
COUNTERING EXTREMISM.
VOICES LIKE CHOUDARY'S WERE IN
HIS CROSSHAIRS.
>> WE ARE GOING TO INTRODUCE NEW
NARROWLY-TARGETED POWERS TO
ENABLE US TO DEAL WITH THESE
FACILITATORS AND CULT LEADERS
AND TO STOP THEM PEDDLING THEIR
HATRED.
>> Ifill: CHOUDARY REMAINS IN
CUSTODY UNTIL HIS NEXT COURT
HEARING, AUGUST 28TH.
IN THE PAST, CHOUDARY ALSO
PRAISED THE 9/11 ATTACKERS.
IN 2016 PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN
NEWS, THE HEAD OF A SUPER PAC
SUPPORTING REPUBLICAN RAND PAUL
WAS INDICTED TODAY ON FEDERAL
CHARGES INVOLVING POLITICAL
BRIBERY.
JESSE BENTON ALLEGEDLY PAID A
STATE SENATOR IN IOWA TO SUPPORT
PAUL'S FATHER-- RON PAUL-- IN
THE 2012 REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
RACE.
TWO OTHER RON PAUL SUPPORTERS
ARE ALSO FACING FEDERAL CHARGES
IN THE CASE.
U.S. COMPANIES WILL HAVE TO
START DISCLOSING THE PAY GAP
BETWEEN C.E.O.'S AND MID-RANGE
EMPLOYEES.
THEY'LL HAVE TO SPELL IT OUT IN
THE FORM OF A RATIO.
THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION VOTED TODAY TO
REQUIRE MOST PUBLICLY-TRADED
FIRMS TO RELEASE THAT
INFORMATION-- BEGINNING IN 2017.
WALL STREET STRUGGLED FOR
DIRECTION AGAIN TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST TEN POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,540, THE NASDAQ ROSE 34
POINTS AND THE S&P 500 ADDED
SIX.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S WARNING TO
OPPONENTS OF THE IRAN NUCLEAR
DEAL, THE TOP TEN LIST:
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES PREPARE TO
TAKE THE DEBATE STAGE IN
CLEVELAND AND MUCH MORE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY STEPPED UP
HIS FULL COURT PRESS AGAINST
CRITICS OF THE IRAN NUCLEAR
AGREEMENT.
IN AN ADDRESS STAGED AT THE VERY
PLACE JOHN F. KENNEDY DELIVERED
A SPEECH PRESSING FOR AN ARMS
DEAL WITH RUSSIA IN 1963-- MR.
OBAMA LINKED THE DEAL'S
OPPONENTS TO THOSE WHO SUPPORTED
GOING TO WAR WITH IRAQ.
HE ALSO WARNED THAT AMERICA'S
INTERNATIONAL CREDIBILITY WILL
BE LOST IF CONGRESS KILLS THE
AGREEMENT.
>> BEFORE THE INK WAS EVEN DRY
ON THIS DEAL, BEFORE CONGRESS
EVEN READ IT, A MAJORITY OF
REPUBLICANS DECLARED THEIR
VIRULENT OPPOSITION.
>> Ifill: IN AN ALMOST HOUR-LONG
SPEECH, THE PRESIDENT DENOUNCED
CRITICS OF THE NUCLEAR AGREEMENT
IN HIS STRONGEST TERMS YET.
>> IF THE RHETORIC IN THIS AND
THE ACCOMPANYING COMMENTARY
SOUNDS FAMILIAR, IT SHOULD.
FOR MANY OF THE SAME PEOPLE WHO
ARGUED FOR THE WAR IN IRAQ ARE
NOW MAKING THE CASE AGAINST THE
IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL.
IT WAS A MINDSET CHARACTERIZED
BY A REFERENCE FOR MILITARY
ACTION OVER DIPLOMACY.
A MINDSET THAT PUT A PREMIUM ON
UNILATERAL U.S. ACTION OVER THE
AIG
INTERNATIONAL CONSENSUS.
>> Ifill: AND --HE WARNED--
REJECTING THE IRAN DEAL NOW WILL
SET THE COUNTRY ON THE PATH TO
NEW CONFLICT.
>> THE CHOICE WE FACE IS
ULTIMATELY BETWEEN DIPLOMACY AND
SOME FORM OF WAR.
THERE ARE OPPONENTS OF THIS DEAL
WHO ACCEPT THE CHOICE OF WAR.
IN FACT THEY ARGUE THAT SURGICAL
STRIKES AGAINST IRAN'S
FACILITIES WILL BE QUICK AND
PAINLESS.
BUT IF WE'VE LEARNED ANYTHING
FROM THE LAST DECADE IT'S THAT
WARS IN GENERAL AND WARS IN
THE MIDDLE EAST IN PARTICULAR
ARE ANYTHING BUT SIMPLE.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT ALSO
ARGUED AGAIN THAT IRAN WILL
ACCELERATE ITS NUCLEAR EFFORTS,
IF CONGRESS BLOCKS THIS DEAL.
BUT SENATE MAJORITY LEADER MITCH
McCONNELL, IN ADVANCE OF THE
PRESIDENT'S REMARKS, REJECTED
THAT CLAIM OUTRIGHT.
>> IT'S CLEAR THIS DEAL IS
MAKING MEMBERS OF BOTH PARTIES
UNEASY, AND WITH GOOD REASON.
AMERICA'S ROLE IN WORLD, ITS
COMMITMENT TO GLOBAL ALLIES AND
THE KIND OF FUTURE WE LEAVE OUR
CHILDREN ARE ALL TIED UP IN THIS
ISSUE.
IT'S WHY I'VE CALLED FOR A
DEBATE WORTHY OF THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE AGREEMENT, WHEN THE
SENATE TAKES IT UP IN SEPTEMBER.
>> Ifill: ALSO ON CAPITOL HILL,
SENATORS MET WITH THE HEAD OF
THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY FOR A PRIVATE BRIEFING ON
HOW THE AGREEMENT WOULD AFFECT
IRAN'S NUCLEAR EFFORTS.
>> IT WAS NOT A REASSURING
MEETING.
>> Ifill: REPUBLICAN BOB CORKER
OF TENNESSEE-- CHAIRMAN OF THE
FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE--
RAISED QUESTIONS ABOUT ACCESS TO
IRAN'S NUCLEAR SITES.
>> MOST MEMBERS LEFT WITH
GREATER CONCERNS ABOUT ABILITY
THE INSPECTION REGIME THAN THEY
CAME IN WITH.
>> Ifill: BUT THE I.A.E.A.
CHIEF, YUKIYA AMANO, SAID HE
CANNOT GIVE CONGRESS A COPY OF
HIS AGENCY'S NUCLEAR INSPECTION
AGREEMENT WITH IRAN.
AND AT A SEPARATE HEARING,
UNDERSECRETARY OF STATE WENDY
SHERMAN WAS QUESTIONED ON THAT
SAME POINT.
>> ULTIMATELY WHAT WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT HER T OF THE INTEL
ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY WHETHER IN
FACT WE BELIEVE THEY ARE
CREDIB, INLEDEPENDENT
VERIFICATION ORGANIZATION, WHICH
IT IS.
>> Ifill: POLLS SHOW THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC IS ALSO DIVIDED
OVER THE AGREEMENT.
A RECENT "WALL STREET JOURNAL"/
N.B.C. NEWS SURVEY FOUND A THIRD
SUPPORTING THE DEAL, A THIRD
OPPOSING IT, AND A THIRD SAYING
THEY DON'T KNOW ENOUGH TO MAKE A
DECISION.
CONGRESS HAS BEGUN A 60-DAY
REVIEW, AND HAS UNTIL SEPTEMBER
17TH TO VOTE ON IT.
THE PRESIDENT HAS WARNED HE'LL
VETO ANY RESOLUTION OF
DISAPPROVAL.
SO HOW SUCCESSFUL WAS THE
PRESIDENT IN MAKING THE CASE FOR
THE IRAN NUCLEAR AGREEMENT?
WE GET TWO VIEWS.
NICHOLAS BURNS HAD A 27-YEAR
CAREER IN THE FOREIGN SERVICE.
HE'S NOW AT HARVARD UNIVERSITY'S
KENNEDY SCHOOL.
AND RAY TAKEYH WAS A SENIOR
ADVISER ON IRAN AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT DURING PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S FIRST TERM.
HE'S NOW A SENIOR FELLOW AT THE
COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS.
RAY TAKEYH, THE PRESIDENT HAS
TOUGH WORDS TODAY.
HE TALKED ABOUT HOW NETANYAHU
WAS JUST WRONG, HE LINKED THE
IRANIAN OPPOSITION TO THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY, THE REPUBLICAN
CAUCUS, AND HE SAID THAT HE
CRITICIZED HIS OPPONENTS AS ARM
CHAIR NUCLEAR SCIENTISTS, BUT
MOST OF ALL HE MADE THIS LINK TO
PEOPLE WHO VOTED FOR THE WAR IN
IRAQ.
WAS THE PRESIDENT ON TARGET OR
OFF?
>> I WENT BACK AND ACTUALLY READ
JACK KENNEDY'S SPEECH, AND IT
WAS IDEALISTIC.
HE SAID WE SHOULD NOT WAVE THE
FINGER OF ACCUSATION OR ISSUE
INDICTMENTS.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT WAS URN
YIELDING, PASSIONATE BUT HE DID
NOT MAKE A SUCCESSFUL PITCH TO
THE CRITICS.
THIS IS A TECHNOLOGICALLY FLAWED
AGREEMENT AND THE PRESIDENT
SHOULD HAVE ATTEMPTED TO BROADEN
THE PARAMETERS OF THIS, THE
PARAMETERS OF THE CONVERSATION
ABOUT THIS AGREEMENT.
I THINK IN THAT SENSE THE
PRESIDENT MISSED HIS MARK AND I
THINK IT WAS UNWISE.
>> Ifill: NICHOLAS BURNS, WHAT
DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE
PRESIDENT'S TONE IN PARTICULAR?
>> GWEN, I THOUGHT THE PRESIDENT
MADE A VERY STRONG CASE ON THE
MERITS, AN IMPASSIONED CASE
BECAUSE I THINK THIS MAY BE, FOR
HIM, HIS MOST IMPORTANT FOREIGN
POLICY ISSUE.
I THINK HE MADE TWO IMPORTANT
POINTS -- ONE, THIS DEAL IS
GOING TO FREEZE IRAN'S GNARL
PROGRAM, THEY HAVE BEEN ON THE
MARCH TEN YEARS.
IT WILL FREEZE THEM TEN OR 15
YEARS, PUT THEM UNDER I.A.E.A.
SAFEGUARDS, AND THIS DEAL MEANS
IRAN WILL BE SET BACK TO A YEAR
TO BEING ABLE TO PRODUCE A
WEAPON AND ALL THIS DONE BY
DIPLOMACY AND NEGOTIATION, NOT
WAR.
AS MEASURES, I THINK WE OUGHT TO
HAVE THE SELF-CONFIDENCE TO
DIPLOMACY FIRST RATHER THAN WAR.
IN ANSWER TO YOUR SPECIFIC
QUESTION, GWEN, I THINK THE
PRESIDENT OUGHT TO HAVE A BIG
TEN POLICY HERE.
TO SAY THAT IF THE DEAL IS
TURNED DOWN, IF CONGRESS DEFEATS
THE PRESIDENT, IF IT OVERRIDES
HIS VETO IN DECEMBER, THAT LEADS
TO WAR, I THINK IS A LITTLE
STARK.
IT'S MUCH MORE PROBABLE THAT IF
A DEAL BREAKS DOWN, IT WILL BE
BAD FOR THE UNITED STATES
BECAUSE WE'LL BE THE ONES WHO
WILL HAVE BROKEN THE AGREEMENT,
THE IRANIANS WILL BE ABLE TO
RECONSTITUTE A CIVIL PROGRAM.
I DON'T THINK, HOWEVER, THE
IRANIANS WILL ELECT TO THEN GO
TO A NUCLEAR WEAPON WHICH WOULD
INVITE AN AMERICAN RESPONSE.
AND RATHER THAN PAINT THE CRITIC
AS THE IRAQ WAR CRITICS, I HAVE
BEEN UP ON THE HILL FOR THREE
WEEKS, TESTIFIED FOUR TIMES, MET
LOTS OF MEMBERS, THEY COME IN
VERY DIFFERENT FORMS.
THERE ARE DEMOCRATS WHO ARE
WORRIED ABOUT THIS DEAL,
DEMOCRATS WHO ARE WORRIED ABOUT
ISRAEL.
SO I THINK IF PRESIDENT WOULD BE
WELL ADVISED NOT TO TRY TO PAINT
HIS CRITICS AS WARMONGERS BUT TO
EXPLAIN THE CASE AND MERITS AND
THE MERITS FOR THIS DEAL ARE
VERY STRONG.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
CHOICE BETWEEN UNILATERAL ACTION
AND DIPLOMACY.
THOSE RAISE NICHOLAS BURNS'
CONCERNS, DO THEY RAISE YOURS AS
WELL?
>> NOT ENTIRELY.
THE HISTORY OF ARMS CONTROLS
SUGGEST WHEN THERE ARE
CONGRESSIONAL OBJECTIONS, AND
THE PRESIDENT MENTIONED THOSE,
THERE IS AN ATTEMPT TO
RENEGOTIATE THE ASPECT OF THIS.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHAT
PRESIDENT SHOULD HAVE DONE WHEN
HE MET THE CRITICISM AS OPPOSED
TO JUST DIGS MISS IT.
THERE ARE ASPECTS OF THIS
AGREEMENT THAT ARE PROBLEMATIC
SUCH AS THE SUNSET CLAUSE WHICH
AFTER ESSENTIALLY TEN YEARS IRAN
GETS TO EMBARK ON AN
INDUSTRIAL-SIZED NUCLEAR PROGRAM
AND THEN THERE IS NO INSPECTION
MODALITY REALLY THAT CAN DETECT
A WEAPON OPTION.
THE PRESIDENT ESSENTIALLY AFTER
THE REJECTION OF THE DEAL SHOULD
THERE BE ONE HAS A CHANCE TO GO
BACK, RENEGOTIATE SOME ASPECT OF
THE DEAL, THEREFORE STRENGTHEN
IT AND AS HE DOES, I THINK HE
CAN BROADEN THE BIPARTISAN
SUPPORT FOR IT.
I WOULD BE VERY CONCERNED IF I
WAS A SUPPORTER OF THIS DEAL
THAT THIS DEAL IS BASED ON SUCH
A NARROW MARGIN OF PUBLIC
SUPPORT IN THE HILL.
I THINK THE LONGEVITY OF THIS
DEAL IS CRUSHING BY ITS ABSENCE
OF BIPARTISAN SUPPORT.
>> Ifill: NICHOLAS BURNS, I
WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE POLITICS
OF THAT BUT I WANT TO ASK YOU
THE QUESTION ABOUT SANCTIONS AND
INSPECTIONS AND WHETHER THOSE
ARE LOOPHOLES THAT CAUSE
LEGITIMATE CONCERN.
>> WELL, I THINK THIS DEAL IS A
BENEFIT, GWEN, OF A MIX OF
BENEFITS AND RISKS.
THERE ARE SOME RISKS.
THE PRIMARY RISK IS WHAT THIS
DOES IS FREEZES THE IRANIANS FOR
TEN YEARS, BUT THEN AFTER TEN TO
15 YEARS, THE IRANIANS DO HAVE
THE RIGHT TO RECONSTITUTE A
CIVIL NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
IN MY VIEW, I SUPPORT THE DEAL
AS SOMEONE WHO WORKED IN THE
BUSH AND CLINTON ADMINISTRATION.
I SUPPORT IT BECAUSE WE'RE NOT
GOING TO BE ANY WORSE OFF AFTER
HAVING FROZEN THE IRANIANS FOR
10 TO 15 YEARS AT THAT TIME.
WE'LL STILL BE A LOT STRONGER
MILITARILY, WE'LL STILL BE ABLE
TO REASSEMBLE A SANCTIONS
COALITION IF WE HAVE TO DO THAT,
AND I THINK THAT THE BENEFITS,
FOR ME, OUTWEIGH THE RISK, SO I
THINK THAT'S WHAT THE COUNTRY
SHOULD DO.
BUT THE CRITICS OF THIS DEAL,
GWEN, MAINLY THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY, HAVE TRIED TO SAY THERE
IS AN ALTERNATIVE, AND THE
ALTERNATIVE IS TO WALKWAY FROM
THESE TALKS AND SANCTION IRAN
FURTHER AND WAIT FOR A BETTER
DEAL.
THE PROBLEM WITH THAT IS WE'VE
BUILT A BIG GLOBAL COALITION BUT
IT'S AN UNWIELDY ONE.
I DON'T THINK THE GLOBAL
COALITION WILL STAY TOGETHER IF
THE U.S. UNILATERALLY WALK OUT
OF THE DEAL, THE SANCTIONS
REGIME WILL LIKELY ERODE, AND IF
WE WALK AWAY, THE IRANIANS WON'T
HAVE TO LIVE BY ITS RESTRICTIONS
AND THEY WILL BE FREE TO BEGIN
TO BUILD A NUCLEAR PROGRAM
AGAIN.
I THINK THAT SCENARIO OF THE
REPUBLICAN CRITICS LARGELY
STRENGTHENS IRAN AND WEAKENS THE
UNITED STATES.
>> Ifill: WHAT ABOUT RAY
TAKEYH'S POINT THAT WITH A
NARROW WINDOW OR MARGIN OF
SUPPORT ON CAPITOL HILL AND THE
DETAILS HANGING OVER IT ALL, THE
PRESIDENT IS MAKING A TACTICAL,
POLITICAL ERROR?
>> WELL, I THINK, FROM MY
OBSERVATION, THIS HAS BECOME A
VERY PARTISAN DISCUSSION ON
CAPITOL HILL.
THERE ARE ONLY A HANDFUL OF
REPUBLICANS WHO MAY SUPPORT THIS
DEAL.
THE REAL DEBATE'S IN THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY AND I THINK
THAT'S WHERE THE PRESIDENT HAS
TO TURN HIS ATTENTION TO MAKE
SURE DNR IT LOOKS, GWEN, THAT
THE VOTE, WHEN IT'S HELD IN
KEPT, THE CONGRESS WILL VOTE
BECAUSE OF REPUBLICAN MAJORITIES
IN BOTH HOUSES TO DISAPPROVE THE
DEAL.
THE PRESIDENT WILL THEN VETO.
HE SAID HE WILL DO THAT.
CAN THE PRESIDENT SUSTAIN HIS
VETO?
I THINK EVERYTHING WILLEN
OBVIOUSLY, THE DEMOCRATS IN THE
SENATE.
I WOULD BE SURPRISED IF THE
PRESIDENT'S VETO WAS OVERRIDDEN
JUST BASED ON WHAT I'M HEARING
AND TALKING TO MEMBERS IN MY
TIME ON CAPITOL HILL THIS WEEK.
>> Ifill: RAY TAKEYH, THE
PRESIDENT AND NICK BURNS SAYS
THERE IS NO BETTER DEAL.
IS THAT TRUE?
>> NOBODY'S TALKING ABOUT
WALKING AWAY FROM THE TABLE.
AT LEAST I'M TALKING ABOUT
RENEGOTIATING CERTAIN ASPECTS OF
THIS AGREEMENT THAT ARE
PARTICULARLY PROBLEMATIC AND
CONTENTION.
>> Ifill: HOW DO YOU
RENEGOTIATE A DEAL WHERE THE
OTHER NATIONS HAVE SIGNED OFF?
>> I THINK IT WILL BE DIFFICULT
BUT NOT IMPOSSIBLE BECAUSE SOME
OF THE PROVISIONS ARE SO
GLARINGLY FALL I THINK OTHER
COUNTRIES WILL WANT
NEGOTIATIONS.
THE SUNSET CLAUSE, IRAN'S
DEVELOPMENT OF I.R.A.
CENTRIFUGES WHICH PRODUCES
URANIUM 17 TIMES FASTER, THE
VERIFICATION ON THIS IS
EXTRAORDINARILY IMPERFECT.
THE PRESIDENT TALKS ABOUT THIS
IS THE MOST INTRUSIVE
VERIFICATION SYSTEM AND THE ONLY
OTHER VERIFICATION SYSTEM THAT'S
MORE INTRUSIVE RESULTS FROM THE
IRAQ WAR AND ARMISTICE.
THAT'S NOT TRUE.
IN PRACTICE, YOU HAD ACCESS TO
MILITARY FACILITIES WITHIN ONE
DAY.
SO WE CAN RENEGOTIATE ASPECTS OF
THIS AGREEMENT, THE HISTORY OF
ARMS CONTROLS REPLETE WITH SUCH
EXERCISES, AND I THINK IF YOU DO
THAT, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE
STRENGTHENED, IT WILL BE BASED
ON THE BIPARTISAN ANCHOR, ENSURE
LONGEVITY, ENSURE THE
PROLIFERATION CASCADE IN THE
MIDDLE EAST WILL NOT TAKE PLACE
AND ENSURE IRAN WILL NOT SNEAK
OUT TO A BOMB.
THE FIRST, FOREMOST AND ONLY
TEST OF AN ARMS CONTROL
AGREEMENT IS DOES IT RELIABLY
AND PERMANENTLY CONTROL ARMS.
THERE IS QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
RELIABILITY OF THE AGREEMENT.
THERE IS NO QUESTIONS ABOUT
PERMANENCE.
IT'S LIKE A CARTON OF MILK, IT
HAS AN EX PIRLINGS DATE AND WE
SHOULD REVISIT IT.
>> Ifill: NICHOLAS BURNS AND
RAY TAKEYH, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: TOMORROW, 17
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES FOR
PRESIDENT WILL GATHER IN
CLEVELAND-- TEN OF THEM IN
PRIMETIME-- FOR THE FIRST DEBATE
OF THE POLITICAL SEASON.
POLITICAL DIRECTOR LISA
DESJARDINS IS THERE WITH A
PREVIEW.
>> Reporter: IN THE LONG AND
WONDERFUL HISTORY OF REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL DEBATES, THERE HAS
NEVER BEEN AN EVENT LIKE THIS
ONE, NOT IN SIZE, NOT IN FLAVOR.
>> WELL, YOU NEED SOMEBODY BUT A
POLITICIANS ARE ALL TALK, NO
ACTION.
NOTHING'S GOING TO GET DONE.
>> Reporter: DONALD TRUMP, THE
PREDICTION-DEFYING,
BORDER-VISITING, SELF-EXTOLLING
BUSINESSMAN MAY BE THE MOST
COLORFUL REPUBLICAN FRONTRUNNER
IN MODERN HISTORY, BUT HE HAS
NEVER BEFORE BEEN IN A MAJOR
DEBATE.
RON IS AMONG THE STRATEGISTS
GUESSING AT WHAT TRUMP WILL DO
TOMORROW NIGHT.
>> WILL JUST GO POSITIVE AND
PLAY NICE WITH THE OTHER
CANDIDATES, BUT THAT'S UNLIKE
TRUMP.
ONCE HE GETS ATTACKED, I THINK
IT WILL BE TOUGH FOR HIM TO STAY
QUIET AND POSITIVE.
>> Reporter: FOR OTHER
CANDIDATES WRESTLING WITH DEBATE
PRESSURE, THIS ADDS A
SIGNIFICANT ISSUE.
ATTACK OR DON'T ATTACK.
>> JEB BUSH, SCOTT WALKER OR
MARCO RUBIO WILL LIKELY STAY OUT
OF TAKING TRUMP ON.
YOU WILL ACT PRESIDENTIAL
BECAUSE YOU'RE LEADING THE
FIELD.
YOU'RE IN THE TOP THREE OR FOUR
POSITIONS HERE.
FOR A LESSER KNOWN CANDIDATE
LIKE DR. BEN CARSON OR MIKE
HUCKABEE, I WOULD WANT TO TAKE
ON DONALD TRUMP.
>> Reporter: DONALD TRUMP IS
NOT THE ONLY ELEMENT OF
SPECTACLE IN CLEAVED.
THE OTHER IS THE GENERAL
REPUBLICAN FIELD.
17 CANDIDATES IS AN ALL-TIME
RECORD AND A FIRST I TIME
LOGISTICAL NIGHT MAYOR.
THE THE RESULT IS A TRICKY AND
CONTROVERSIAL DECISION TO SPLIT
UP THE CANDIDATES.
IN THE MAIN EVENT, THE TWO-HOUR
PRIME TIME DEBATE HOST FOX NEWS
INVITED THE TOP TEN CANDIDATES
IN AN AVERAGE OF FIVE NATIONAL
POLLS.
THAT LEAVES OUT THESE SEVEN
CANDIDATES, REPUBLICANS WHOSE
RESUMES INCLUDE SENATOR,
GOVERNOR AND A C.E.O. WHO IS IT
ONLY WOMAN IN -- WHO IS THE ONLY
WOMAN IN THE REPUBLICAN FIELD.
THEY WILL HOLD A SEPARATE DEBATE
EARLIER IN THE DATE.
>> POLLS MEAN NOTHING.
THIS IS AN ARBITRARY FIGURE.
UNFORTUNATELY, THE NETWORKS AND
THE R.N.C. HAVE GONE ALONG WITH
THIS IRRELEVANT MEASURE OF
LEGITIMACY OF CANDIDACY.
>> Reporter: AS VISIBLE AT
THIS CROWDED NEW HAMPSHIRE Q&A
MONDAY, THE PROBLEM IS THERE ARE
17 LEGITIMATE CANDIDATES.
IT'S A PROBLEM FOR THEM, BUT
TOMORROW, IT COULD MEAN A
FASCINATING FIGHT FOR VOTERS.
LISA DESJARDINS, THE PBS
"NewsHour", CLEVELAND.
>> Ifill: STAY WITH US.
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR: THE
VIOLENT BACKLASH AGAINST
FOREIGNERS LIVING IN SOUTH
AFRICA, PROVIDING UNLIMITED
PARENTAL LEAVE TO EMPLOYEES AND
MAKING A NEW OPERA INSPIRED BY
THE BEST SELLING NOVEL "COLD
MOUNTAIN."
SURROUNDING THE EMAILS
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE HILLARY CLINTON SENT
WHILE SERVING AS SECRETARY OF
STATE.
CLINTON'S LAWYER HAS CONFIRMED
THE F.B.I. IS LOOKING INTO THE
SECURITY OF CLASSIFIED EMAILS
ONCE STORED ON A PRIVATE SERVER.
THE QUESTIONS FIRST AROSE LAST
SUMMER WHEN STATE DEPARTMENT
LAWYERS NEEDED ACCESS TO
INFORMATION ABOUT THE 2012
ATTACKS IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA.
CLINTON HERSELF HAS CALLED FOR
THE STATE DEPARTMENT TO RELEASE
HER EMAILS TO THE PUBLIC.
A CAMPAIGN SPOKESMAN SAID IN A
STATEMENT THAT SHE "DID NOT SEND
NOR RECEIVE ANY EMAILS THAT WERE
MARKED CLASSIFIED AT THE TIME."
THE FORMER SENATOR AND FIRST
LADY HAS NOT BEEN ACCUSED OF ANY
PERSONAL WRONGDOING BY
AUTHORITIES.
CAROL LEONNIG HELPED BREAK THE
STORY FOR "THE WASHINGTON POST"
AND JOINS ME NOW.
SO EXACTLY WHAT IS THE F.B.I.
INVESTIGATING, CAROL?
>> SO THE F.B.I. AND AGENTS WHO
ARE WORKING ON THIS ARE LOOKING
AT HOW SECURE THE COPIES,
ELECTRONIC, DIGITAL, PAPER, HOW
SECURE COPIES OF THAT -- OF
THOSE E-MAILS ARE TO MAKE SURE
THEY DON'T FALL IN THE WRONG
HANDS.
NOW WE KNOW INSPECTORS GENERAL
AT TWO AGENCIES FOUND CLASSIFIED
MATERIAL IN SOME OF THE E-MAILS
THAT WENT TO HILLARY'S SERVER,
MRS. CLINTON'S SERVER.
NOW THAT WE KNOW THAT, THE
F.B.I. IS CONCERNED ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT SOME OF THAT
INFORMATION COULD BE
COMPROMISED.
THERE ARE TWO PLACE THIS IS
INFORMATION IS CURRENTLY STORED
THAT WE KNOW OF.
ONE, ON A THUMB DRIVE OF HILLARY
CLINTON'S LAWYER, DAVID KENDALL
IN WASHINGTON, HE HAS SAID HE
HAS ELECTRONIC COPIES OF ALL
30,000 E-MAILS THAT FORMER
SECRETARY OF STATE CLINTON SENT
DURING HER TIME IN THE
DEPARTMENT AND THAT HE'S KEEPING
THEM SO HE CAN RESPOND TO
CONGRESSIONAL INQUIRIES.
>> Ifill: THERE IS A
DISTINCTION TO BE DRAWN IN THIS
INVESTIGATION AS TO WHAT'S ON
PUBLIC SERVERS, WHAT WAS ON THE
PRIVATE SERVERS WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT H AND WHAT'S CONSIDERED
TO BE CLASSIFIED INFORMATION AND
WHAT'S CONSIDERED TO BE
SENSITIVE INFORMATION.
CAN YOU SORT THAT OUT FOR US?
>> YES, AND IT'S THE SUBJECT OF
A HUGE DISPUTE.
IN MANY DIFFERENT WAYS.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE STATE
DEPARTMENT AND THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY HAVE DIFFERENCES OF
OPINION ABOUT WHAT MATERIAL IS
CLASSIFIED WITHIN THE E-MAILS
THAT THEY REVIEWING OF FORMER
SECRETARY CLINTON.
REMEMBER, THIS ALL CAME TO PASS
BECAUSE OF REVELATIONS THAT
MRS. CLINTON HAD EXCLUSIVELY
USED A PRIVATE EMAIL SERVER, A
PRIVATE EMAIL AIRED FOR HER
WORK -- EMAIL ADDRESS FOR HER
WORK BUSINESS AND THAT SHE HAD
SET UP A PRIVATE EMAIL SERVER AT
HER HOME TO HANDLE THOSE
E-MAILS.
CRITICS SAY THAT HAS PUT THIS
INFORMATION SORT OF OUT OF THE
GOVERNMENT'S REACH, TO A DEGREE.
ANYWAY, BACK TO THE CLASSIFIED
ISSUE.
THERE ARE DISAGREEMENTS ABOUT
WHAT MATERIAL IS CLASSIFIED, AND
THIS IS WHY BOTH THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL FOR THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY AND THE INSPECTOR
GENERAL FOR THE STATE DEPARTMENT
HAVE ASKED THE F.B.I. TO LOOK AT
THIS MATTER AND DETERMINE
WHETHER THIS MATERIAL IS SECURE
AND TO MAKE SURE THAT NO
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION HAS BEEN
COMPROMISED.
>> Ifill: ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT'S INTERESTING IN THIS CAROL
IS THE CLINTON CAMPAIGN RESPONSE
WHICH IS THAT SHE DIDN'T SEND
ANY E-MAILS THAT WERE CLASSIFIED
AT THE TIME -- THEIR WORDS "AT
THE TIME."
IS THAT LEAVING ROOM FOR THE
POSSIBILITY THAT THERE WERE SOME
E-MAILS, SOME COMMUNICATION THAT
WAS LATER DEEMED TO BE
CLASSIFIED, THAT SHE UNWITTINGLY
SENT?
>> I THINK THAT THIS COULD BE
BASICALLY A DEBATE ABOUT
SEMANTICS AND WORDS.
THE INSPECTORS GENERAL HAVE
ALREADY SAID PUBLICLY THAT THE
E-MAILS THEY'VE REVIEWED THAT
THEY FOUND CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION IN WERE NOT STAMPED
"CLASSIFIED."
THERE WAS NO FORMAL STAMP SAYING
THIS IS WHAT THIS IS.
BUT THEY HAVE SAID THAT IT WAS
CLEARLY INFORMATION THAT WAS
SENSITIVE, OF NATIONAL SECURITY
SIGNIFICANCE, MATERIAL THAT
SHOULD HAVE BEEN STAMPED
CLASSIFIED AND THAT SENIOR
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WOULD
PRESUME WAS CLASSIFIED.
REMEMBER THAT, OFTENTIMES,
AGENCY OFFICIALS WOULD HAVE
THEIR E-MAILS REVIEWED FOR
CLASSIFICATION PURPOSES AFTER
THE FACT OR WHEN THEY WERE BEING
REVIEWED, AND THAT DIDN'T SEEM
TO HAVE BEEN THE CASE WITH
MRS. CLINTON'S E-MAILS BECAUSE
THEY WERE NOT BEING SENT ON A
GOVERNMENT SERVER, AND THEY WERE
NOT ON A GOVERNMENT EMAIL
ADDRESS.
>> Ifill: DO WE KNOW WHETHER
ANY OF THE INFORMATION THAT'S
BEEN UNEARTHED SO FAR HAD
ANYTHING TO DO WITH WHAT STARTED
ALL OF THIS WHICH WAS THE
BENGHAZI INVESTIGATION?
>> WE HAVE NOT SEEN COPIES OF
THE E-MAILS.
REMEMBER, THERE ARE FOUR TO FIVE
OF THEM SO FAR OF 40 THAT HAVE
BEEN REVIEWED BY THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AND HAVE
BEEN FOUND TO CONTAIN CLASSIFIED
INFORMATION.
THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY SAYS
THAT THESE FIVE OF THE 40 OR
FOUR OF THE 40, DEPENDING ON
WHICH THEY LABEL AS CLASSIFIED,
THAT THIS INFORMATION IN THEM
CAME FROM DEFENSE AND
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY AGENCIES.
SO, AGAIN, WHETHER IT REFERENCES
LIBYA OR BENGHAZI, THAT I DON'T
KNOW.
>> Ifill: OR WHETHER IT'S
EMBARRASSING OR CRIMINAL, THAT'S
WHAT WE'RE WAITING TO SEE AS IT
UNFOLDS.
CAROL LEONNIG OF "THE WASHINGTON
POST," THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Ifill: WE TURN NOW TO SOUTH
AFRICA WHERE A WAVE OF VIOLENCE
AGAINST MIGRANTS EARLIER THIS
YEAR LEFT MANY VICTIMS
FRIGHTENED AND THE GOVERNMENT
STRUGGLING FOR A SOLUTION TO THE
RESURGENCE OF XENOPHOBIA-- THE
FEAR OF PEOPLE FROM OTHER
COUNTRIES.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MARTIN SEEMUNGAL HAS OUR REPORT
FROM DURBAN, SOUTH AFRICA.
A WARNING: SOME OF THE IMAGES IN
THIS STO MAYRY BE DISTURBING.
>> Reporter: SIX DEAD,
HUNDREDS INJURED, 5,000 MIGRANTS
FORCED TO SEEK REFUGE IN HASTILY
ORGANIZED CAMPS, ALL DUE TO A
WAVE OF ANTI-FOREIGNER VIOLENCE
IN SOUTH AFRICA.
POLICE HAVE WATCHED OVER THIS
REFUGEE CAMP FOR IMMIGRANTS FOR
TWO MONTHS, GUARDING PEOPLE WHO
CAME HERE FOR SAFETY, BEING TOLD
NOW IT IS TIME TO RETURN HOME.
THIS MAN SAID THE ATTACK ON HIS
FAMILY WAS SUDDEN AND EXTREMELY
VIOLENT.
>> THEY TOOK MY SON.
THEY PUT HIM, THEY ALMOST BURNED
HIM.
THAT'S HOW THEY STARTED.
>> Reporter: THIS SOMALI
IMMIGRANT RUNNING FOR HIS LIFE
FROM A GROUP OF SOUTH AFRICANS
ALSO SURVIVED.
THIS ATTACK, ONE OF MANY IN
APRIL, PART OF A WAVE OF
XENOPHOBIC ATTACKS AGAINST OTHER
AFRICANS LIVING AND WORKING
HERE.
ACCORDING TO OFFICIAL
STATISTICS, THERE ARE JUST OVER
2 MILLION IMMIGRANTS IN SOUTH
AFRICA AND SOMEWHERE BETWEEN
500,000 AND 1 MILLION ARE
UNDOCUMENTED.
THE WORST VIOLENCE WAS IN THE
DURBIN AREA, PARTS OF DOWNTOWN
BECAME BATTLE ZONES AS MIGRANTS
FOUGHT BACK.
IT APPEARED TO BE PART OF A
SYSTEMATIC CAMPAIGN AGAINST
PEOPLE FROM AFRICAN COUNTRIES,
IN PARTICULARLY MOZAMBIQUE, AND
ERETH IS NO WORD WHEN WHO'S
ORGANIZING THE ATTACK.
CHRIS VAN DEN BERG IS A CITY
COUNCILLOR IN DURBIN.
>> THERE'S A GROUP 80 PLUS,
TELLING PEOPLE VERY CLEARLY THAT
THEY COULD NOT BE HERE SUNDAY
MORNING, THAT THEY WERE GOING TO
BE -- THEY WERE EITHER GOING TO
BE KILLED OR ATTACKED.
>> Reporter: ANTI-IMMIGRANT
FEELINGS ALSO SPREAD TO
JOHANNESBURG.
THERE WERE LARGE ANGRY
DEMONSTRATIONS AGAINST
FOREIGNERS.
MET BY POLICE USING VOLLEYS OF
BIRD SHOT.
SOUTH AFRICA'S GOVERNMENT
CONDEMNED THE ATTACKS.
THE COUNTRY'S HOME AFFAIRS
MINISTER MALUSI GIGABA PROMISING
STRONG ACTION AGAINST THE
PERPETRATORS.
>> THE ATTACKS AGAINST HUMAN
BEING AND DESTRUCTION OF
PROPERTY ARE CRIMINAL OFFENSES
AND WILL NOT BE TOLERATED.
>> Reporter: 307 PEOPLE WERE
ARRESTED.
SO FAR, THERE HAVE BEEN NO
CONVICTIONS.
THERE IS A PAINFUL IRANI TO WHAT
HAS HAPPENED TO THESE PEOPLE.
MANY FLED THEIR HOME COUNTRIES
TO ESCAPE CONFLICT.
SO THEY ARE SHOCKED AT WHAT HAS
HAPPENED TO THEM HERE IN SOUTH
AFRICA.
DRIVEN FROM HOMES AND BUSINESSES
BUILT AFTER YEARS OF HARD WORK,
FORCED INTO TEMPORARY SHELTERS,
CROWDED TENTS, SURVIVING ON FOOD
PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT AND
RELIEF AGENCIES.
KABANGA KAJI HAS LIVED IN THIS
CAMP IN DURBIN FOR SEVERAL
WEEKS.
SHE HAS FOUR CHILDREN.
>> LIFE HERE IS MISERABLE.
WE LIVE LIKE ANIMALS.
THE PLACE WE SLEPT IN IS NOT
GOOD.
>> I USED TO THINK AFRICA IS A
GOOD COUNTRY AND NOW I THINK
IT'S BAD BECAUSE THEY'RE KILLING
US FOR NO REASON.
>> Reporter: SOME BLAME THE
LARGEST ETHNIC GROUP IN SOUTH
AFRICA FOR THE ATTACKS.
EARLIER THIS YEAR, MIGRANTS
LIVING IN SOUTH AFRICA WERE
CRITICIZED, ESPECIALLY SMALL
BUSINESSES RUN BY FOREIGNERS.
HE ENDED HIS SPEECH WITH A CALL
FOR THEM TO PACK THEIR BAGS.
THE KING MAINTAINS HIS REMARKS
WERE TAKEN OUT OF CONTEXT.
XENOPHOBIC ATTACKS ARE NOT NEW
TO SOUTH AFRICA.
IN 2008, ATTACKS ON FOREIGNERS
LED TO MORE FATALITIES.
67 PEOPLE WERE KILLED AROUND
JOHANNESBURG.
JEAN PIERRE MISAGO IS FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF WITSWATERSRAND IN
JOHANNESBURG AND SAYS THE
VIOLENCE DID NOT COME AS A
SURPRISE.
>> POLITICAL PRONOUNCEMENTS
AGAIN.
BUT IT SHOWED THERE WERE NO
CONCRETE MEASURES TO PREVENT
VIOLENCE FROM HAPPENING AGAIN.
>> Reporter: THE KILLING OF
MOZAMBIQUE MAN WAS CAPTURED IN
CHILLING PICTURES BY A
PHOTOGRAPHER WITH THE SUNDAY
TIMES OF SOUTH AFRICA, JAMES
OATWAY.
>> THEY WERE ANGRY AND FULL OF
HATE.
THE EXPRESSION ON THEIR FACES,
THEY WEREN'T GOING TO BE
SATISFIED WITH ANYTHING BUT
KILLING.
THAT IS THE ONE THING I COULD
TELL.
>> Reporter: THE ATTACK LASTED
JUST 28 SECOND AND THEN STOPPED.
THE MEN FLED.
THIS MAN WAS STILL ALIVE AN
CONSCIOUS, OATWAY RUSHED HIM TO
A HOSPITAL IN A CAR BUT IT WAS
TOO LATE.
>> I DON'T HAVE REGRETS OF MY
ACTIONS TAKING PICTURES OF THE
ATTACK, I THINK I DID WHAT I
COULD AND I THINK MY BEING THERE
WAS AN INTERVENTION OF SORTS.
MY ONLY REGRET REALLY IS THAT WE
DIDN'T GET HIM TO THE HOSPITAL
QUICKLY ENOUGH FOR HIS LIFE TO
BE SAVED.
>> Reporter: ALEXANDRIA IS ONE
OF THE POOREST PLACES IN SOUTH
AFRICA.
MANY MIGRANTS LIVE HERE BECAUSE
IT IS AFFORDABLE AND A
PERCEPTION AMONG SOUTH AFRICANS
HERE THAT IMMIGRANTS ARE TAKING
THEIR JOBS.
>> THE UNEMPLOYMENT, THOSE ARE
NOT THE KEY FACTORS.
IF IT WAS, WE WOULD SEE VIOLENCE
EVERYWHERE, WHERE THERE IS
POVERTY.
OVERALL, YOU CAN FRAME VIOLENCE
AS A GOVERNMENT ISSUE BECAUSE
WE'RE A COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: WHEN SOUTH AFRICA
SECURITY FORCES ESCALATED
OPERATIONS AND VISIBILITY
AGAINST THE ATTACKERS, THE
VIOLENCE SUBSIDED.
THERE HAVE BEEN RECENT
DEMONSTRATIONS AGAINST ZEN
XENOPHOBIA, BUT THOUSANDS OF
MIGRANTS MADE THE DECISION TO
LEAVE RETURNING HOME TO
ZIMBABWE, MALAWI AND MOZAMBIQUE.
FOR THE IMMIGRANTS WHO STAYED,
THE GOVERNMENT IS DETERMINED TO
REIMGRAT THEM BACK INTO THE
COMMUNITIES THEY WERE DRIVEN OUT
OF.
IRENE IS BACK IN THE APARTMENT
SHE SHARES WITH OTHER AFRICAN
IMMIGRANTS IN DURBAN.
I AM REALLY WORRIED GIVEN WHAT
WILL HAPPEN, BUT WE HAVE BEEN
TOLD THE GOVERNMENT AND POLICE
WILL PROTECT US, SHE SAYS.
BUT SHE IS AFRAID EVERY TIME SHE
GOES OUTSIDE AND TOLD US SHE WAS
RECENTLY BEATEN AT THE MARKET.
KABANGA KAJI IS DEEPLY WORRIED
AS WELL.
>> WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN TO ME.
IF I GO, IT WILL HAPPEN AGAIN.
IF THEY SAVE MY LIFE TWO TIMES,
MAYBE I WILL DIE.
>> Reporter: IT IS A
FRIGHTENING PROSPECT FOR THESE
SURVIVORS NOT KNOWING IN THE
XENOPHOBIC RAID THAT COST SO
MANY LIVES WILL RETURN AGAIN.
FOR THE SPB "NewsHour", MARTIN
SEEMUNGAL IN DURBAN, SOUTH
AFRICA.
>> Ifill: THE DECISION BY
NETFLIX, THE VIDEO STREAMING
SERVICE, TO GRANT UP TO A YEAR
OF PAID LEAVE FOR NEW PARENTS
GENERATED BIG INTEREST AMONG
WORKERS TODAY.
THE NEW AND UNUSUAL COMPANY
POLICY WILL APPLY TO MOTHERS AND
FATHERS OF NEWBORNS OR NEWLY
ADOPTED CHILDREN.
HARI SREENIVASAN IN OUR NEW YORK
STUDIOS HAS MORE ON THIS STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: NETFLIX
EMPLOYEES WILL BE ABLE TO
DETERMINE THEIR SCHEDULES FOR UP
TO A YEAR AFTER HAVING A BABY.
A FEW OTHER TECH GIANTS HAVE
ALSO SET A NEW STANRD DAIN
RECENT YEARS.
GOOGLE PROVIDES MORE THAN FOUR
MONTHS OF PAID LEAVE FOR
BIOLOGICAL MOTHERS.
APPLE OFFERS A SIMILAR AMOUNT.
BUT FOR MOST NEW PARENTS, IT'S A
VERY DIFFERENT STORY.
JUST 12% OF PRIVATE SECTOR
EMPLOYEES IN THIS COUNTRY HAVE
ACCESS TO PAID FAMILY LEAVE
THROUGH THEIR JOB.
SOME CONTEXT NOW ON THE NETFLIX
POLICY AND WHETHER OTHERS WILL
FOLLOW SUIT AT ALL.
SARAH JANE GLYNN STUDIES THESE
ISSUES AND ADVOCATES FOR GREATER
LEAVE AS THE DIRECTOR FOR
WOMEN'S ECONOMIC POLICY AT
THE CENTER FOR AMERICAN
PROGRESS.
SO HOW BIG OF A DEAL IS THIS
NETFLIX ANNOUNCEMENT?
>> IT'S A HUGE TEAL IN THAT THIS
IS THE MOST GENEROUS POLICY I'M
AWARE OF ANY AMERICAN COMPANY
OFFERING FOR NEW PARENTS THAT
WORK FOR THEM.
BUT YOU'RE RIGHT TO NOTE ONLY
12% OF WORKERS CURRENTLY HAVE
THESE TYPES OF VOLUNTARY
POLICIES THROUGH THEIR
EMPLOYERS, SO WHILE THIS IS A
TREMENDOUS BOON FOR PEOPLE LUCKY
ENOUGH TO WORK FOR NETFLIX, THE
MAJORITY OF THE WORKFORCE IS NOT
GOING TO BE IMPACTED BY IT.
>> Reporter: NETFLIX IS IN A
SPECIFIC CARGT, AN ENORMOUS
COMPANY, A TECH SECTOR WHERE
IT'S COMPETITIVE TO TRY TO
RECRUIT PEOPLE BURKS WHAT'S THE
RIPPLE EFFECT LIKELY TO BE ON AN
AUTO MANUFACTURER OR AN IRON
PLANT SOMEWHERE ELSE IN THE
COUNTRY?
>> I THINK THERE WERE A ONE
COUPLE OF INTERESTING THINGS
TO -- THERE WERE A COUPLE OF
INTERESTING THINGS TO KEEP IN
MIND.
TECH COMPANIES ARE KNOWN FOR
OFFERING THESE GENEROUS LEAVE
POLICIES AND PART OF THE REASON
IS BECAUSE THEY'VE RECOGNIZED
THIS IS A REALLY EFFECTIVE WAY
TO RECRUIT TALENT AND RETAIN THE
TALENT.
ONE OF THE REASONS GOOGLE
EXPANDED THEIR PARENTAL LEAVE
POLICY IS BECAUSE THEY KNEW THEY
WERE LOSING SO MANY TALENTED
WOMEN FROM THEIR WORKFORCE AND
ONCE THEY EXPENDED THE MATERNITY
LEAVE, THEIR RETENTION RATE WAS
50%.
IT MAKES GOOD SENSE FOR THE
COMPANIES TO DO SO WHO CAN
AFFORD IT.
THE BIG COMPANIES WHO HAVE A LOT
OF MONEY CAN AFFORD TO OFFER
GENEROUS POLICIES TO WORKERS,
BUT SMALLER BUSINESSES
OFTENTIMES STRUGGLE TO OFFER
VOLUNTARY POLICIES LIKE THIS, SO
THAT'S PART OF WHY WE HAVE BEEN
ARGUING THAT WE NEED TO HAVE A
NATIONAL STANDARD AND
LARGE-SCALE PAID FAMILY LEAVE
PROGRAM LIKE IN EVERY OTHER
ADVANCED ECONOMY IN THE WORLD SO
WE'RE NOT EXPECTING INDIVIDUAL
BUSINESSES TO HAVE THE FOOT THE
BILL ENTIRELY ON THEIR OWN.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW WOULD
SOMETHING LIKE THAT GET FUNDED?
I CAN HEAR SMALL BUSINESSES
AROUND THE COUNTRY WATCHING
SAYING WHERE IS THAT MONEY
COMING FROM?
IF IT'S NOT COMING OUT OF MY
POCKET, IT'S COMING OUT OF
WHOSE?
>> ONE THING THAT'S GREAT IS WE
CAN LOOK TO THREE STATES THAT
ALREADY IMPLEMENTED THESE TYPES
OF POLICIES.
CALIFORNIA HAD A FAMILY LEAVE
PROGRAM IN PLACE FOR OVER A
DECADE FOLLOWED BY NEW JERSEY
AND MOST RECENTLY RHODE ISLAND.
IN THOSE STATES, EMPLOYERS
AREN'T EXPECTED TO PAY IN.
IT'S A SMALL PAYROLL TAX IN.
NEW JERSEY, LESS THAN $50 A YEAR
FOR THE AVERAGE WORKER TO FUND
THIS TYPE OF PROGRAM AND THEN
THE WAGES ARE THERE FOR YOU WHEN
YOU NEED THEM.
SO LIKE EVERY SOCIAL INSURANCE
PROGRAM, IT REQUIRES VERY, VERY
SMALL PREMIUMS TO BE PAID BUT
THE PAYOFF IS HUGE FOR FOLKS WHO
NEED TO UTILIZE THEM.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO NOTES THE
POLICIES COVER OTHER TYPES OF
FAMILY CARE GIVING BECAUSE
CERTAINLY NEW PARENTS NEED TIME
OFF TO CARE FOR BABIES BUT
PEOPLE ALSO NEED TIME TO CARE
FOR OTHER FAMILY MEMBERS AS
WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE SEEMS TO
BE A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
DISTINCTIONS WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
FAMILY LEAVE.
SOMETIMES IT'S JUST FOR BIOLOGY
CANTICLE MOTHERS.
OTHER TIMES FOR MOTHERS ONLY.
THIS SEEMS A BIT MORE BROAD.
IS THAT REFLECT AGO DIFFERENT
TREND?
>> YES, AND I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT NETFLIX
IS OFFERING TO THEIR WORKERS A
PLAN THAT'S VERY DIFFERENT AND
OFFERS THE SAME AMOUNT OF
BELIEVE TO BIOLOGICAL BIRTH
MOTHERS, ADOPTIVE PARENTS AND TO
FATHERS.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT'S VERY,
VERY DIFFERENT, AND I THINK IT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT AND DEFINITELY
RESPONDING TO A NEED.
ONE THING THAT WE'VE SEEN,
PARTICULARLY AMONG MILLENNIAL
MEN WHO ARE BECOMING FATHERS FOR
THE FIRST TIME, THEY'RE
REPORTING BEING INVOLVED WITH
THEIR CHILDREN'S LIVES IS
INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT TO THEM.
THEY'RE VEALANCING WORK WITH FAD
BEING THERE FOR THEIR CHILDREN
IN WAYS PERHAPS THEIR PARENTS
WEREN'T ABLE TO BE THERE FOR
THEM.
SO I THINK THIS IS THE NEW FACE
OF THIS MOVEMENT, IT'S GOING TO
BE MEN WHO -- DAD NEED THIS
LEAVE, TOO.
IT'S ABOUT ALL TYPES OF
FAMILIES.
>> Sreenivasan: CONSIDERING
OTHER COUNTRIES ARE DOING THIS
FOR SOME TIME AND A FEW
COMPANIES THAT HAVE DATA, WHAT
ARE THE OUTCOMES?
IS IT ACTUALLY POSSIBLE TO PROVE
THAT THIS RETAINS EMPLOYEES,
THAT THEY'RE HAPPIER AND WORK
LONGER OR MORE PRODUCTIVE?
>> SO ALL OF THE DATA WE HAVE ON
PAID LEAVE SHOWS THAT IT MAKES
PEOPLE MORE LIKELY TO RETURN TO
WORK.
IT MAKES THEM MORE LIKELY TO
RETURN TO THAT SAME JOB AND
SALARY THAT THEY HELD BEFORE
THEY HAD A BABY.
IT MAKES PEOPLE MORE PRODUCTIVE
AND MORE DEVOTED TO THEIR
COMPANIES BECAUSE, FRANKLY, THEY
DON'T HAVE TO WORRY SO MUCH
ABOUT HOW THEY'RE GOING TO MAKE
ENDS MEET.
SO IT REALLY IS A WIN-WIN FOR
EMPLOYERS AND FOR FAMILIES.
YOU KNOW, THERE IS VERY, VERY
FEW ARGUMENTS THAT ACTUALLY FLY
TO ARGUE AGAINST THIS.
>> SARAH JANE GLYNN, CENTERS FOR
AMERICAN PROGRESS, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW TO THE MAKING OF A
NEW OPERA FROM A STORY SET AMID
THE HORROR OF THE CIVIL WAR.
THE SECOND PERFORMANCE IS
TONIGHT IN SANTA FE, NEW MEXICO.
JEFFREY BROWN WAS THERE FOR THE
PREMIERE THIS WEEKEND.
(SINGING)
>> Brown: IN THE NEW OPERA
"COLD MOUNTAIN," WE FIRST MEET
W.P. INMAN AT A CONFEDERATE
MILITARY HOSPITAL IN VIRGINIA AS
HE AND SOLDIER MOURN THE LOSS OF
YET ANOTHER FALLEN COMRADE.
(SINGING)
WOUNDED AND SICK OF WAR'S
HORROR, INMAN DECIDES HE'S HAD
ENOUGH AND WALKS AWAY, A
DESERTER, TOWARDS ADA MONROE.
(SINGING)
THE WOMAN HE LEFT BEHIND IN THE
BLUE RIDGE MOUNTAINS OF WESTERN
NORTH CAROLINA.
THE OPERA'S COMPOSER IS JENNIFER
HIGDON.
>> THE PEOPLE IN THE LANDSCAPE,
THE LANGUAGE, FELT LIKE
SOMETHING I KNEW WELL ENOUGH TO
BE THE SUBJECTS OF A FIRST
OPERA.
>> Brown: AS IN THESE ARE MY
PEOPLE AND THIS IS MY LAND?
>> YES, AND I THOUGHT TO MYSELF,
WELL, THERE'S A OT LOF LOVE AND
DEATH IN THIS AND THOSE ARE BIG
OPERA SCENES AND THAT SEEMED
PERFECT.
>> Brown: SHE WAS RAISED ON
THE TENNESSEE SIDE TO HAVE THE
MOUNTAINS.
HER PARENTS LOVED ROCK AND ROLL.
NO CLASSICAL MUSIC IN THEIR
CHILDHOOD.
>> NO OPERA, UNLESS YOU COUNT
GRAND OLE OPRY.
>> Brown: HIGMAN WAS VERY
KNOWN FOR CHAIM CHAMBER MUSIC
BUT NEVER TRIED OPERA.
>> IF YOU WANTED TO TRY AN
OPERA, THIS IS THE PERFECT
PLACE.
>> Brown: THE SANTA FE OPERA
IS RENOWNED SURROUNDED BY THE
MOUNTAINS OF NORTHERN
NEW MEXICO.
IN THE SCENERY AND SOMETIMES IN
THE SKIES ABOVE.
THUNDER AND LIGHTNING --
>> AND CANON FIRE!
(APPLAUSE)
>> Brown: 18 YEARS AGO,
LIGHTNING STRUCK FOR A THEN
UNKNOWN WRITER NAMED CHARLES
FRAZIER.
"COLD MOUNTAIN" SPENT 61 WEEKS
ON THE TOP TO HAVE THE BEST
SELLER LIST, WON A NATIONAL BOOK
AWARD AND HAS SOLD MORE THAN
3 MILLION COPIES.
IN 2003 CAME "COLD MOUNTAIN" THE
FILM.
AND NOW THE OPERA.
AND FRAZIER AND HIS FAMILY WERE
THERE FOR THE PREMIERE.
DID YOU HAVE A SENSE OF THE
PHENOMENON YOU WERE CREATING
WHEN YOU WERE WRITING THIS BOOK?
>> OH, MY GOSH, NO.
I MEAN, THE WHOLE TIME I WAS
WORKING ON IT, I WAS THINKING,
DON'T EVER GO SIT DOWN AT THE
DESK, WORRYING WHETHER IT'S
GOING TO BE PUBLISHED OR NOT.
>> Brown: NEVER MIND A MOVIE
AND OPERA.
>> EXACTLY.
>> Brown: MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
READING, RIGHT?
>> I THINK THE BIGGEST THING I
EVER LET MYSELF HOPE FOR WAS
THAT I WOULD GET A BETTER
TEACHING SCHEDULE OUT OF IT.
(LAUGHTER)
(SINGING)
>> Brown: THE OPERA IS TOLD
THROUGH ALTERNATING EPISODES.
THE PERILOUS JOURNEY OF THE HOME
GUARD MILITIA LOOKING FOR
DESERTERS.
(SINGING)
>> Brown: ADA AND HER FRIEND
RUBY STRUGGLE TO SURVIVE AMID
WAR'S DEPRIVATIONS.
WE ALSO SEE FLASHBACKS TO THE
LOVERS' EARLY COURTSHIP JUST
BEFORE THE WAR.
GETTING FROM PAGE TO STAGE TOOK
SEVERAL YEARS.
HIGDON WORKED WITH GENE SCHEER
WHO MAD IT INTO A THEATRICAL
STORY WHICH WORDS ARE NOW THE
SERVICE OF MUSIC.
>> IT'S BETTER TO STRUCTURE THE
STORY IN A WAY THAT INVITES
MUSIC IN.
I'M LOOKING FOR MUSICAL
POSSIBILITIES AND SITUATIONS AND
MOMENTS THAT ASK TO BE SUNG AND
THEN TO ADD THE WORDS TO IT.
THE THE WORST THING I THINK YOU
COULD DO IS TAKE THE BOOK AND
PUT IT ON THE STAGE.
THE IDEA IS NOT TO BE FAITHFUL
TO THE LETTER OF THE SOURCE BUT
TO THE SPIRIT OF THE SOURCE.
>> Brown: THAT'S PERHAPS SEEN
MOST DRAMATICALLY IN THE SET
DESIGNED BY ROBERT BRILL.
IN OUR BEAUTIFUL COUNTRY
WE'RE THERE.
>> Reporter: DIRECTOR LEONARD
FOGLIA SAID HE WANTED AN
ABSTRACT ENVIRONMENT SUGGESTING
A SHATTERED WORLD AS OPPOSED TO
THE RICH DETAIL TO HAVE THE
NATURAL WORLD IN THE NOVEL.
>> I CAN'T COMPETE WITH IT.
I CAN'T COMPETE WITH THE FILM
AND PEOPLE'S IMAGINATIONS.
WE'VE ALL WALKED IN THE WOODS
AND KNOW WHAT THAT IS AND I KNEW
I COULDN'T DO THAT, SO I WASN'T
GOING TO EVEN TRY.
SO I WAS GOING TO JUST TRY TO
GET TO WHAT I THINK IS THE SOUL
OF THE BOOK AND THE STORY.
THE MAIN CHARACTER IN THIS,
INMAN, HE'S BEEN GUTTED, IS ONE
OF THE PHRASES CHARLES USES IN
THE BOOK AND WE USE IT IN THE
OPERA.
(SINGING)
AND I WANT AN ENVIRONMENT THAT'S
BEEN GUTTED.
>> Brown: GOGLIA ASSEMBLED AN
ALL-STAR CAST IN INMAN AND
ISABELLE LEONARD AS ADA AND JAY
HUNTER MORRIS AS THE EVIL AND
MURDEROUS LEADER OF THE HOME
GUARD.
>> YOU KIND OF ENJOY PLAYING THE
ROLE?
>> IT'S GREAT FUN.
I LIKE TO PUT ON THE OUTFIT AND
STRAP ON THE GUN OR, YOU KNOW, A
PEG LEG OR A BIG FLOWING WIG.
>> Brown: AND OPEN YOUR VOICE,
YOUR MOUTH --
>> AND TELL A STORY, YEAH.
>> Brown: LIKE JENNIFER
HIGDON, MORRIS GREW UP WITHOUT
CLASSICAL MUSIC IN HIS LIFE AND
DISCOVERED OPERA IN HIS 20s.
THE TEXAS NATIVE HAS AN
ADVANTAGE HERE.
>> THE SWING OF THE
ACCENT IS CONSTANTLY IN MY EAR.
I AM SO HAPPY TO NOT HAVE TO
WORK TOO STRENUOUSLY ON THE
DIALECT, YOU KNOW.
IF I TAKE ON A ROLE THAT'S
RUSSIAN OR CZECH OR EVEN GERMAN,
I SPEND MANY, MANY HOURS AND
WEEKS AND MONTHS TOILING, TRYING
TO GET THE FLAVOR.
>> Brown: SOUND LIKE A RUSSIAN
OR ITALIAN.
>> YEAH.
>> Brown: AND THIS SOUNDS
FAMILIAR TO YOU?
>> IT'S A LOT EASIER THAN
SINGING IN CZECH, I'LL TELL YOU
THAT.
(SINGING)
>> Brown: AN HOUR BEFORE
OPENING NIGHT, WE JOIN MORRIS
IN, YES, THE BATHROOM.
DO YOU WAYSAL DO THIS IN THE
BATHROOM?
>> IT'S MY FAVORITE SPOT.
THERE IS THE BEST ACOUSTICS.
>> Brown: NEARBY, ISABELLE
LEONARD WAS BEING TRANSFORMED
INTO ADA.
AND ON STAGE, SOME LAST-MINUTE
FIGHT SCENES WERE REHEARSED.
>> ONE MORE!
>> Brown: OUTSIDE IN THE
MOUNTAIN" APPROPRIATE BANJO
PLAYING AS PATRONS TOOK PART IN
THE SANTA FE VERSION OF
TAILGATING.
THEN IT WAS ON WITH THE SHOW.
THE DAY BEFORE I HAD ASKED
COMPOSER JENNIFER HIGDON ABOUT
THE PROSPECTS FOR HER OPERA.
IT'S HARD TO GET A NEW OPERA
LAUNCHED AND INTO THE CANON AND
GET IT PERFORMED AGAIN.
>> RIGHT.
>> Brown: ARE YOU --
APPREHENSIVE?
(LAUGHTER)
>> Brown: IN FACT, SPOIL AIR
LETTER FOR THOSE WHO DON'T KNOW
THE STORY, UNLIKE INMAN, "COLD
MOUNTAIN" THE OPERA HAS A GOOD
CHANCE TO SURVIVE AND THRIVE.
OPERA HOUSES IN PHILADELPHIA,
MINNESOTA AND NORTH CAROLINA
HAVE ALREADY AGREED TO PRESENT
COLD MOUNTAIN, AND ON OPENING
NIGHT HERE, COMPOSER, ARTISTIC
TEAM, NOVELLEST AND CAST TOOK
THEIR VOW BOWS TO A STANDING
OVATION.
FOR PBS "NewsHour", I'M
JEFFREY BROWN IN SANTA FE,
NEW MEXICO.
>> Ifill: THE SANTA FE OPERA
ANNOUNCED ANOTHER AMBITIOUS
PROJECT TO COME.
THE COMPANY HAS COMMISSIONED AN
OPERA ABOUT THE CO-FOUNDER OF
APPLE, STEVE JOBS.
THE WORK WILL LOOK AT HOW JOBS
FACED HIS OWN MORTALITY AND
EXPLORE THE EVENTS AND PEOPLE
THAT SHAPED AND INSPIRED HIM.
IT'S SET TO PREMIERE DURING THE
2017 SEASON.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE: IT'S A
GENETIC MYTH THAT'S BEEN
PERPETUATED FOR DECADES IN
COUNTLESS GRADE SCHOOL SCIENCE
TEXTBOOKS: THAT ROLLING YOUR
TONGUE IS A GENETIC TRAIT.
NO, I'M NOT GOING TO TRY IT.
TURNED OUT IT'S NOT.
WE TALKED TO AN EVOLUTIONARY
BIOLOGIST WHOSE MISSION IT IS TO
DEBUNK POPULAR GENETIC
MISCONCEPTIONS.
YOU CAN READ HOW THIS ONE GOT
ITS START, ON OUR HOMEPAGE:
THAT'S pbs.org/newshour.
TUNE IN LATER TONIGHT ON CHARLIE
ROSE MORE ANALYSIS OF THE
PRESIDENT'S CAMPAIGN FOR THE
IRAN NUCLEAR DEAL.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK BACK AT
YEARS OF GROUNDBREAKING, TOPICAL
HUMOR-- AND FAKE NEWS-- AS JON
STEWART SAYS FAREWELL TO THE
"DAILY SHOW."
I'M GWEN IFILL.
JOIN US ONLINE AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.